TITLE: Academic & Industrial Exposure - Sarvajanik College of Engineering & Technology a Constituent institute
URL: https://scet.ac.in/pages/academic-amp-industrial-exposure/

About Sarvajanik College of Engg. & Tech. (SCET) Sarvajanik Education Society SES Management SCET Committees Internal Committees Women’s Development Cell Anti-Ragging Cell Grievance Redressal Committee Disability Resource Center IQAC Administration SCET Governing Body Desk of Chairman Desk of Chairman Representative Desk of Principal

Sarvajanik College of Engg. & Tech. (SCET)

Desk of Chairman Representative

Academic Academic Activities Induction Program Industrial Visits NPTEL Courses Research&Development Activities Admission Academic Calendar GTU Academic Calendar SU Academic Calendar Academic Rules and Regulations Honors/Minors Honors-Minors - Results Exam Schedule Transdisciplinary Open Electives (TOE) MoUs/Collaborations OBE Manual Programs Offered Scholarships and Awards Fees Structure Offered by Government Assistance from Community Offered by private firms Bank loans Awards at SCET Teaching Scheme Result Syllabus

Transdisciplinary Open Electives (TOE)

Department Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Applied Science and Humanities Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Computer Engineering Electrical Engineering Electronics & Communication Engineering Information Technology Instrumentation and Control MCA Mechanical Engineering Textile Technology

Artificial Intelligence & Data Science

Electronics & Communication Engineering

Training & Placement About Training & Placement Vision and Mission Invitation Letter Placement Procedure Student Policy Why Recruit From SCET Academic & Industrial Exposure Recruiter Interaction Programme List of Recruiters Placement Report Placement Ratio Summer & winter internship Career Counselling Training T&P Team Tips

Recruiter Interaction Programme

Campus Life Hostel Hostel fees Rules and Regulations for Hostel Cafeteria Library About Library Library Rules Library Functioning Library Staff Library E-Resources SCET Clubs Technical Clubs CODING CLUB IOT Club Non-Technical Clubs SCET Dance Club (SDC) SCET Music Club (SMC) SCET Yoga Club (SYC) SCET Photography Club (SPC) KALEDIOSCOPE@SCET Environment Club CLUBS Activities Sports Sports Facilities Sports Events Intra Department Sports Events Inter SES Sports Events SU Inter College Events GTU Inter Zonal Sports Events GTU Surat Zone Sports Events Sports Achievements National Players Sports Photo Gallery Student Chapters Computer Society of India (CSI) IEEE SCET Branch ISTE ISA IETE IEI IIChE Students Achievements Other Facilities

Internationalization About the International Relations Cell International Collaborations Global Excursions B Tech + MS Programs International Activities Contact US

About the International Relations Cell

Events Art and Intellect Kshitij TechFest NSS Activities / Social Activities SAWC Activities VERVE Cultural Fest

NSS Activities / Social Activities

Media SCET in Media College News Student News FAQs Downloads

× search Web Image Sort by: Relevance Relevance Date

As one of the finest institutions for technical education and research, SCET has a tradition of academic excellence and innovation. The academic atmosphere at the Institute is a rare blend of modern day technical skills and the traditional emphasis on imparting knowledge. Students get exposed to the highest quality of engineering education and research as well as an environment that instills in them a high caliber to achieve in whatever field they choose. The continuous assessment of our students, with particular emphasis on tutorials leads to continuous learning. SCET also has a number of well equipped laboratories with state of the art facilities.

It is customary to accompany classroom learning with hand-on-practical and often with research internship or industrial projects. Each department is offering industry sponsored project to expose their knowledge towards Real Practical problems. Innovative ideas are put to practice in many projects. Such industrial activity provides students with adequate exposure in tackling real life problems encountered in the working of an industrial entity. The companies also gain from the fresh perspective and inputs of the students as also bettering their profile among the general student community.

Often various talks/workshop/seminars/conference are held by eminent speakers and experts. Conference/Symposium/Seminars are of national level are organized at SCET with participation from students, academicians, industry and research organization.

Students are regularly exposed to the latest industrial practices through several industrial visits. The academic curriculum also requires a student to undergo industrial training for four weeks at the end of the 6th semester of B. E. Degree programmes. The training provides students with an understanding of the problems encountered in the working of an industry.

Specific short term courses are also customized to cater the need of students like “C-Language Programming”, “Linux- Open-Source tool”.

Artifical Intelligence & Data Science

Electronics & Communication Engineering

Dr, R K Desai Marg, Opp. Mission Hospital,Athwalines,Surat-395001, Gujarat, India.

+91-0261-2240146/47/48    |  +91 8799078785 info@scet.ac.in