TITLE: Applied Science and Humanities - Sarvajanik College of Engineering & Technology a Constituent institute
URL: https://scet.ac.in/department/applied-science-and-humanities/

About Sarvajanik College of Engg. & Tech. (SCET) Sarvajanik Education Society SES Management SCET Committees Internal Committees Women’s Development Cell Anti-Ragging Cell Grievance Redressal Committee Disability Resource Center IQAC Administration SCET Governing Body Desk of Chairman Desk of Chairman Representative Desk of Principal

Sarvajanik College of Engg. & Tech. (SCET)

Desk of Chairman Representative

Academic Academic Activities Induction Program Industrial Visits NPTEL Courses Research&Development Activities Admission Academic Calendar GTU Academic Calendar SU Academic Calendar Academic Rules and Regulations Honors/Minors Honors-Minors - Results Exam Schedule Transdisciplinary Open Electives (TOE) MoUs/Collaborations OBE Manual Programs Offered Scholarships and Awards Fees Structure Offered by Government Assistance from Community Offered by private firms Bank loans Awards at SCET Teaching Scheme Result Syllabus

Transdisciplinary Open Electives (TOE)

Department Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Applied Science and Humanities Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Computer Engineering Electrical Engineering Electronics & Communication Engineering Information Technology Instrumentation and Control MCA Mechanical Engineering Textile Technology

Artificial Intelligence & Data Science

Electronics & Communication Engineering

Training & Placement About Training & Placement Vision and Mission Invitation Letter Placement Procedure Student Policy Why Recruit From SCET Academic & Industrial Exposure Recruiter Interaction Programme List of Recruiters Placement Report Placement Ratio Summer & winter internship Career Counselling Training T&P Team Tips

Recruiter Interaction Programme

Campus Life Hostel Hostel fees Rules and Regulations for Hostel Cafeteria Library About Library Library Rules Library Functioning Library Staff Library E-Resources SCET Clubs Technical Clubs CODING CLUB IOT Club Non-Technical Clubs SCET Dance Club (SDC) SCET Music Club (SMC) SCET Yoga Club (SYC) SCET Photography Club (SPC) KALEDIOSCOPE@SCET Environment Club CLUBS Activities Sports Sports Facilities Sports Events Intra Department Sports Events Inter SES Sports Events SU Inter College Events GTU Inter Zonal Sports Events GTU Surat Zone Sports Events Sports Achievements National Players Sports Photo Gallery Student Chapters Computer Society of India (CSI) IEEE SCET Branch ISTE ISA IETE IEI IIChE Students Achievements Other Facilities

Internationalization About the International Relations Cell International Collaborations Global Excursions B Tech + MS Programs International Activities Contact US

About the International Relations Cell

Events Art and Intellect Kshitij TechFest NSS Activities / Social Activities SAWC Activities VERVE Cultural Fest

NSS Activities / Social Activities

Media SCET in Media College News Student News FAQs Downloads

× search Web Image Sort by: Relevance Relevance Date

“There is no such thing as a special category of science called Applied Science, there is Science and its applications, which are related to one another as the fruit is related to the tree that has borne it.”

Truly believing in the aforementioned quote of Louis Pasteur, the Department of Applied Science and Humanities (ASH) is devoted to foster the fundamental principles and understanding of Science that are capable of enhancing the human experience.

ASH Department plays a vital role in catering the teaching of basic Sciences and Humanities Courses for engineering students of all the branches. The department endeavours to lay a strong foundation of various disciplines such as; Chemistry, Physics, Mathematics, Communication Skills or English, Management and Physical Education in the mind of aspirant engineers, so that they can advance to rest of their years of study with Cutting-Edge Knowledge.

Consisted of  'Adequate and highly qualified faculty members', the department boasts of four well-equipped laboratories proficient to render the practical aspects of the courses. Dedicated faculties of the department strives to inculcate the basic engineering, communicative and managerial skills, which are indispensable part of any professional office.

The department organizes seminars, guest lectures, workshops, short term trainings and aptitude testson regular basis.

To apply sound knowledge of fundamental physics to create concrete base of engineering.

To develop computational and problem solving skills by analytical techniques of mathematics.

To enhance awareness of environmental conservation and efficient use of natural resources by environmental studies and to serve society at large.

To develop relation between material science and engineering with the use of fundamental chemistry.

To build up students’ communication, interpersonal, managerial and life skills for their bright personal and professional life.

To raise self-discipline, spontaneous sills and team spirit by various sports activities.

To inspire the students for conceptual Knowledge of core subjects and enhance their mental, physical and independent problem solving skill to become best in their professional field.

Aims to lead the aspiring engineers in the field of innovation and ideation by strengthening interpersonal, analytical and core engineering skills through interdisciplinary career-focused practical education with effective use of modern teaching methodologies.

Artifical Intelligence & Data Science

Electronics & Communication Engineering

Dr, R K Desai Marg, Opp. Mission Hospital,Athwalines,Surat-395001, Gujarat, India.

+91-0261-2240146/47/48    |  +91 8799078785 info@scet.ac.in