TITLE: Chemical Engineering - Sarvajanik College of Engineering & Technology a Constituent institute
URL: https://scet.ac.in/department/chemical-engineering/

About Sarvajanik College of Engg. & Tech. (SCET) Sarvajanik Education Society SES Management SCET Committees Internal Committees Women’s Development Cell Anti-Ragging Cell Grievance Redressal Committee Disability Resource Center IQAC Administration SCET Governing Body Desk of Chairman Desk of Chairman Representative Desk of Principal

Sarvajanik College of Engg. & Tech. (SCET)

Desk of Chairman Representative

Academic Academic Activities Induction Program Industrial Visits NPTEL Courses Research&Development Activities Admission Academic Calendar GTU Academic Calendar SU Academic Calendar Academic Rules and Regulations Honors/Minors Honors-Minors - Results Exam Schedule Transdisciplinary Open Electives (TOE) MoUs/Collaborations OBE Manual Programs Offered Scholarships and Awards Fees Structure Offered by Government Assistance from Community Offered by private firms Bank loans Awards at SCET Teaching Scheme Result Syllabus

Transdisciplinary Open Electives (TOE)

Department Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Applied Science and Humanities Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Computer Engineering Electrical Engineering Electronics & Communication Engineering Information Technology Instrumentation and Control MCA Mechanical Engineering Textile Technology

Artificial Intelligence & Data Science

Electronics & Communication Engineering

Training & Placement About Training & Placement Vision and Mission Invitation Letter Placement Procedure Student Policy Why Recruit From SCET Academic & Industrial Exposure Recruiter Interaction Programme List of Recruiters Placement Report Placement Ratio Summer & winter internship Career Counselling Training T&P Team Tips

Recruiter Interaction Programme

Campus Life Hostel Hostel fees Rules and Regulations for Hostel Cafeteria Library About Library Library Rules Library Functioning Library Staff Library E-Resources SCET Clubs Technical Clubs CODING CLUB IOT Club Non-Technical Clubs SCET Dance Club (SDC) SCET Music Club (SMC) SCET Yoga Club (SYC) SCET Photography Club (SPC) KALEDIOSCOPE@SCET Environment Club CLUBS Activities Sports Sports Facilities Sports Events Intra Department Sports Events Inter SES Sports Events SU Inter College Events GTU Inter Zonal Sports Events GTU Surat Zone Sports Events Sports Achievements National Players Sports Photo Gallery Student Chapters Computer Society of India (CSI) IEEE SCET Branch ISTE ISA IETE IEI IIChE Students Achievements Other Facilities

Internationalization About the International Relations Cell International Collaborations Global Excursions B Tech + MS Programs International Activities Contact US

About the International Relations Cell

Events Art and Intellect Kshitij TechFest NSS Activities / Social Activities SAWC Activities VERVE Cultural Fest

NSS Activities / Social Activities

Media SCET in Media College News Student News FAQs Downloads

× search Web Image Sort by: Relevance Relevance Date

The mission statement of Chemical Engineering Department is “To be a Center of Excellence in Chemical Engineering Education which is Industry Relevant, Globally Competitive and Socially Sound”. Department was started from the very first year of the inception of Institute in 1995. Chemical Engineering Department of SCET was accredited by NBA in 2006. The department zealously strives to provide students, the exposure to industrial environment by way of Industrial training, expert lectures and Plant visits. Seminars and workshops are organized frequently to hone their technical and soft skills. The students undergo an extensive course work and extensive laboratory practice in all conventional and advanced areas of Chemical Engineering. In addition, students are involved in significant number of Industry projects where they get a chance to solve problem from Industry and interact with their future employers. As SCET is located in the heart of one of the Chemical hubs of the state, Chemical Engineering students get a chance to interact with local chemical companies and get connected through summer internships and regular plant visits to industries in the vicinity of the city and state. Also there are many students who opt for higher studies at Universities in India and abroad. In order to enhance the knowledge and develop research cult in faculties as well as students different National level events such as National Conference, Symposiums and Short term training programs are organized on the regular basis.

To be a centre of excellence in Chemical Engineering education and research which is industrially relevant and globally competitive.

1. To augment student performance by providing advanced technical knowledge and excellent laboratory infrastructure. 2. To enhance field exposure and research through interaction with public/private sectors and alumni. 3. To create professionals inculcated with innovative ethical thinking, scientific approach and collectively contribute to a society at large.

1. The chief aim of the course is to improve the student’s knowledge in the field of unit operations and unit processes applied in chemical industries, its commissioning and implementation. 2. Enhance the student’s skills in the field of manufacturing of chemicals and identifying-solving major engineering problems associated with it thereby developing them professionally. 3. Cultivate analytical thinking and thereby increase their adaptability of students for changing and upgrading technologies. 4. Provide overall development of the students so that they are able to pursue higher studies, become entrepreneurs or work in harmony with the industries. 5. To inculcate professional ethics and positive attitude and ability to become an upright citizen with a sense of social responsibility towards environment

Engineering Graduates will be able to: PO1 Engineering knowledge: Apply the knowledge of mathematics, science, engineering fundamentals, and an engineering specialization to the solution of complex engineering problems. PO2 Problem analysis: Identify, formulate, review research literature, and analyze complex engineering problems reaching substantiated conclusions using first principles of mathematics, natural sciences, and engineering sciences. PO3 Design/development of solutions: Design solutions for complex engineering problems and design system components or processes that meet the specified needs with appropriate consideration for the public health and safety, and the cultural, societal, and environmental considerations. PO4 Conduct investigations of complex problems: Use research-based knowledge and research methods including design of experiments, analysis and interpretation of data, and synthesis of the information to provide valid conclusions. PO5 Modern tool usage: Create, select, and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and modern engineering and IT tools including prediction and modeling to complex engineering activities with an understanding of the limitations. PO6 The engineer and society: Apply reasoning informed by the contextual knowledge to assess societal, health, safety, legal and cultural issues and the consequent responsibilities relevant to the professional engineering practice. PO7 Environment and sustainability: Understand the impact of the professional engineering solutions in societal and environmental contexts, and demonstrate the knowledge of, and need for sustainable development. PO8 Ethics: Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics and responsibilities and norms of the engineering practice. PO9 Individual and team work: Function effectively as an individual, and as a member or leader in diverse teams, and in multidisciplinary settings. PO10 Communication: Communicate effectively on complex engineering activities with the engineering community and with society at large, such as, being able to comprehend and write effective reports and design documentation, make effective presentations, and give and receive clear instructions. PO11 Project management and finance: Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the engineering and management principles and apply these to one’s own work, as a member and leader in a team, to manage projects and in multidisciplinary environments. PO12 Life-long learning: Recognize the need for, and have the preparation and ability to engage in independent and life-long learning in the broadest context of technological change.

Artifical Intelligence & Data Science

Electronics & Communication Engineering

Dr, R K Desai Marg, Opp. Mission Hospital,Athwalines,Surat-395001, Gujarat, India.

+91-0261-2240146/47/48    |  +91 8799078785 info@scet.ac.in