TITLE: Computer Engineering - Sarvajanik College of Engineering & Technology a Constituent institute
URL: https://scet.ac.in/department/computer-engineering/

About Sarvajanik College of Engg. & Tech. (SCET) Sarvajanik Education Society SES Management SCET Committees Internal Committees Women’s Development Cell Anti-Ragging Cell Grievance Redressal Committee Disability Resource Center IQAC Administration SCET Governing Body Desk of Chairman Desk of Chairman Representative Desk of Principal

Sarvajanik College of Engg. & Tech. (SCET)

Desk of Chairman Representative

Academic Academic Activities Induction Program Industrial Visits NPTEL Courses Research&Development Activities Admission Academic Calendar GTU Academic Calendar SU Academic Calendar Academic Rules and Regulations Honors/Minors Honors-Minors - Results Exam Schedule Transdisciplinary Open Electives (TOE) MoUs/Collaborations OBE Manual Programs Offered Scholarships and Awards Fees Structure Offered by Government Assistance from Community Offered by private firms Bank loans Awards at SCET Teaching Scheme Result Syllabus

Transdisciplinary Open Electives (TOE)

Department Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Applied Science and Humanities Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Computer Engineering Electrical Engineering Electronics & Communication Engineering Information Technology Instrumentation and Control MCA Mechanical Engineering Textile Technology

Artificial Intelligence & Data Science

Electronics & Communication Engineering

Training & Placement About Training & Placement Vision and Mission Invitation Letter Placement Procedure Student Policy Why Recruit From SCET Academic & Industrial Exposure Recruiter Interaction Programme List of Recruiters Placement Report Placement Ratio Summer & winter internship Career Counselling Training T&P Team Tips

Recruiter Interaction Programme

Campus Life Hostel Hostel fees Rules and Regulations for Hostel Cafeteria Library About Library Library Rules Library Functioning Library Staff Library E-Resources SCET Clubs Technical Clubs CODING CLUB IOT Club Non-Technical Clubs SCET Dance Club (SDC) SCET Music Club (SMC) SCET Yoga Club (SYC) SCET Photography Club (SPC) KALEDIOSCOPE@SCET Environment Club CLUBS Activities Sports Sports Facilities Sports Events Intra Department Sports Events Inter SES Sports Events SU Inter College Events GTU Inter Zonal Sports Events GTU Surat Zone Sports Events Sports Achievements National Players Sports Photo Gallery Student Chapters Computer Society of India (CSI) IEEE SCET Branch ISTE ISA IETE IEI IIChE Students Achievements Other Facilities

Internationalization About the International Relations Cell International Collaborations Global Excursions B Tech + MS Programs International Activities Contact US

About the International Relations Cell

Events Art and Intellect Kshitij TechFest NSS Activities / Social Activities SAWC Activities VERVE Cultural Fest

NSS Activities / Social Activities

Media SCET in Media College News Student News FAQs Downloads

× search Web Image Sort by: Relevance Relevance Date

The Computer Engineering Department was established in 1997 with an intake of 30 students in B. E. (Computer Engineering) and had been offering a PG course, ME (CSE), since 2012 also. Currently, Computer Engineering Department offers two AICTE approved courses:

B.Tech. (Computer Engineering) with an intake of 180 students.

M.Tech, (CSE-AIML) with an intake of 12 students.

The department offers a bachelor's degree in computer engineering that covers the latest technologies in various domains aligned with the industries’ demand. The department continues the journey towards "The goal of creating technical excellence which imparts the best knowledge and skills to students with the objective of producing high calibre engineering graduates". A sound theoretical and practical work prepares the students in a wider area of computer engineering.

The department provides high-quality technical education to its students, supported by state-of-the-art computing facilities, a highly qualified teaching staff with excellent retention rates, and dedicated support staff who are always ready to inculcate the best knowledge to the students.

There are six well-equipped laboratories in the department. The ultimate laboratory facility along with unlimited internet access helps the upcoming computer engineer to come out with a bright future. The department always strives for providing excellent and modernized laboratory facilities to the students.

More Information about the department can be found at the Intranet Link .

Experienced faculty members with more than 65% either Ph.D or pursuing Ph.D

All the faculty members on permanent roll

Highest staff retention ratio among self-finance institutes of the entire Gujarat state

A good number of patents and copyrights published/granted/registered

Financial support for students publications, project competitions, hackathons etc.

Good focus on the overall grooming of the students through various active clubs and student chapters

Good academic performance of the students across the state .

Students recognized at lead positions for - NASA SpaceApp Hackathon, Alexa Influencer, Microsoft Student Partner, Google Developer Student Clubs (DSC)

Most of the alumni are placed in reputed MNCs with handsome packages or pursuing their masters from esteemed universities in countries like US, Europe and Canada.

To evolve as a premiere center in the field of computer engineering for developing globally competent and credible engineers with best of the technical knowledge, research and innovations skills who contribute meaningfully to a sustainable society.

To develop the student with a strong foundation of scientific methods and computer engineering through excellence in teaching-learning, research and innovation.

To produce global competency in the department of computer engineering to address emerging challenges in real-life sectors through continuous learning.

To provide students technical and value-based education resulting in entrepreneurs and notable citizens.

Graduates of Computer Engineering will be able to apply the acquired in-depth theoretical and practical knowledge to

PEO1: Exhibit proficiency in modeling, designing and implementing computing systems with real world constraints.

PEO2: Provide solutions to challenging problems by applying their knowledge of Mathematics, Computer Engineering and scientific methods in multi-disciplinary areas.

PEO3: Take up higher studies, research and development, entrepreneurship with adaptability to changing global work environment instilled with technical proficiency, critical thinking, team work, leadership and effective communication.

PEO4: Contribute to economic growth by developing innovative ideas with appropriate considerations of societal and environmental needs by exercising their professional knowledge and ethical responsibility.

Apply the knowledge of mathematics, science, engineering fundamentals and computer engineering specialization to the solution of the complex engineering problems.

Identify, formulate, review research literature, and analyze complex engineering problems based on mathematics, natural sciences and engineering sciences.

Design solutions, system components or processes that meet the specified needs of the societal, and environment considerations.

Use research-based knowledge that includes design and conduct of experiments as well as analysis and interpretation of data.

Create, select, and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and modern engineering and IT tools to complex engineering activities with an understanding of the limitations.

Apply professional engineering practice after assessment and reasoning of societal, health, safety, legal and cultural issues.

Understand the impact of the professional engineering solutions on society and environment to identify the need for sustainable development.

Understand the ethical principles and commit to professional ethics.

Function effectively as an individual, and as a member or leader in diverse teams.

Communicate effectively by means of writing effective reports, designing documentations, making effective presentations, and managing flow of instructions.

Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the engineering as well as management principles by applying them to projects in multidisciplinary environments.

To apply the technical skills to succeed in life-long learning.

Programme Specific Outcomes (PSO)

PSO1: To provide students with sufficient breadth in mathematics, basic science fundamentals, software, modern engineering tools, and equipments to analyze and solve computing problems and also to pursue higher studies and research.

PSO2: An ability to design, develop and implement computer programs in the area related to system software, database, information retrieval, website design, multimedia, and networking with standard practices and strategies in software project development.

PSO3: Analyze, design, implement and validate software/hardware based solutions using standard practices and strategies as well in groups.

Artifical Intelligence & Data Science

Electronics & Communication Engineering

Dr, R K Desai Marg, Opp. Mission Hospital,Athwalines,Surat-395001, Gujarat, India.

+91-0261-2240146/47/48    |  +91 8799078785 info@scet.ac.in