TITLE: Electrical Engineering - Sarvajanik College of Engineering & Technology a Constituent institute
URL: https://scet.ac.in/department/electrical-engineering/

About Sarvajanik College of Engg. & Tech. (SCET) Sarvajanik Education Society SES Management SCET Committees Internal Committees Women’s Development Cell Anti-Ragging Cell Grievance Redressal Committee Disability Resource Center IQAC Administration SCET Governing Body Desk of Chairman Desk of Chairman Representative Desk of Principal

Sarvajanik College of Engg. & Tech. (SCET)

Desk of Chairman Representative

Academic Academic Activities Induction Program Industrial Visits NPTEL Courses Research&Development Activities Admission Academic Calendar GTU Academic Calendar SU Academic Calendar Academic Rules and Regulations Honors/Minors Honors-Minors - Results Exam Schedule Transdisciplinary Open Electives (TOE) MoUs/Collaborations OBE Manual Programs Offered Scholarships and Awards Fees Structure Offered by Government Assistance from Community Offered by private firms Bank loans Awards at SCET Teaching Scheme Result Syllabus

Transdisciplinary Open Electives (TOE)

Department Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Applied Science and Humanities Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Computer Engineering Electrical Engineering Electronics & Communication Engineering Information Technology Instrumentation and Control MCA Mechanical Engineering Textile Technology

Artificial Intelligence & Data Science

Electronics & Communication Engineering

Training & Placement About Training & Placement Vision and Mission Invitation Letter Placement Procedure Student Policy Why Recruit From SCET Academic & Industrial Exposure Recruiter Interaction Programme List of Recruiters Placement Report Placement Ratio Summer & winter internship Career Counselling Training T&P Team Tips

Recruiter Interaction Programme

Campus Life Hostel Hostel fees Rules and Regulations for Hostel Cafeteria Library About Library Library Rules Library Functioning Library Staff Library E-Resources SCET Clubs Technical Clubs CODING CLUB IOT Club Non-Technical Clubs SCET Dance Club (SDC) SCET Music Club (SMC) SCET Yoga Club (SYC) SCET Photography Club (SPC) KALEDIOSCOPE@SCET Environment Club CLUBS Activities Sports Sports Facilities Sports Events Intra Department Sports Events Inter SES Sports Events SU Inter College Events GTU Inter Zonal Sports Events GTU Surat Zone Sports Events Sports Achievements National Players Sports Photo Gallery Student Chapters Computer Society of India (CSI) IEEE SCET Branch ISTE ISA IETE IEI IIChE Students Achievements Other Facilities

Internationalization About the International Relations Cell International Collaborations Global Excursions B Tech + MS Programs International Activities Contact US

About the International Relations Cell

Events Art and Intellect Kshitij TechFest NSS Activities / Social Activities SAWC Activities VERVE Cultural Fest

NSS Activities / Social Activities

Media SCET in Media College News Student News FAQs Downloads

× search Web Image Sort by: Relevance Relevance Date

The Electrical Engineering Department is led by a strong team of qualified, dedicated, and experienced faculty members of 2 Professors, 6 Associate Professors, and 5 Assistant Professors with a profound passion for teaching. We impart quality teaching using pedagogical methodologies, tools, and techniques to relate theory and practical aspects of complex topics. The department has well-equipped all essential laboratories like Electrical Machines, Control Systems, Measurement and Instrumentation, Power systems, Microprocessor, Power Electronics, and Computer Laboratory with necessary licensed simulation software packages. The department always motivates and supports the complete development of students and emphasizes life-long learning, skill development, and employability.

To impart excellent education in Electrical Engineering that coincides today’s need of industry.

To empower budding engineers in achieving educational goals, promote entrepreneurship skills and assist to develop leadership skills for success in professional fields.

To inculcate habits amongst students for ethical attitude and constructive contribution for the benefit of the society and to become global citizens.

The graduate from the Department of Electrical Engineering is expected PEO1: To demonstrate broad knowledge of electrical engineering technology to support design, application, installation, manufacturing, operation, and maintenance of not only electrical but also other diversified areas like electronic, computer and instrumentation system. PEO2: To display the creative and critical reasoning skills to solve technical problems, ethically and responsibly, in benefit of society. PEO3: To exhibit professional attitude, effective communication skills, team work skill and an ability to thrive in multi-disciplinary and diverse fields. PEO4: To pursue professional development, including continuing or advanced education relevant to his/her career path and to motivate for life-long learning.

Upon successful completion of the programme, electrical engineering graduates are expected to PO1: Apply the knowledge of mathematics, science, engineering fundamentals and an engineering specialization to the solution of complex engineering problems. PO2: Identify, formulate, and analyze complex engineering problems based on fundamentals and principles of engineering to suggest practical solutions. PO3: Apply critical thinking in designing and validating components, processes and systems especially related to Electrical Engineering. PO4: Design and conduct experiments, as well as to analyze and interpret data. PO5: Design and analyze Electrical and/or multidisciplinary systems with an aid of suitable modern application tools/packages. PO6: Apply professional engineering knowledge based on assessment and reasoning for societal, health, safety, legal and cultural issues. PO7: Evaluate the consequences of engineering and technological advancement on environment and need for sustainable development. PO8: Value professional, ethical and social responsibilities and an impact of engineering on society. PO9: Work effectively as an individual and in team. PO10: Communicate effectively by means of effective report writing, drafting, making effective presentations, and managing flow of instructions. PO11: Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the engineering and management principles by applying them to projects in multidisciplinary environments. PO12: Develop confidence for self-educators and life-long learners.

Program Specific Outcomes (PSOs)

Graduate electrical engineer will be able to PSO1: Analyze, design and implement ideas and skills of electrical engineering independently and in groups to meet industrial and societal needs. PSO2: Use recent simulation and programming tools for analysis of electrical circuits and systems. PSO3: Evaluate clean energy options, energy efficient solutions and other alternatives for sustainable development

Artifical Intelligence & Data Science

Electronics & Communication Engineering

Dr, R K Desai Marg, Opp. Mission Hospital,Athwalines,Surat-395001, Gujarat, India.

+91-0261-2240146/47/48    |  +91 8799078785 info@scet.ac.in