TITLE: Electronics & Communication Engineering - Sarvajanik College of Engineering & Technology a Constituent institute
URL: https://scet.ac.in/department/electronics-amp-communication-engineering/

About Sarvajanik College of Engg. & Tech. (SCET) Sarvajanik Education Society SES Management SCET Committees Internal Committees Women’s Development Cell Anti-Ragging Cell Grievance Redressal Committee Disability Resource Center IQAC Administration SCET Governing Body Desk of Chairman Desk of Chairman Representative Desk of Principal

Sarvajanik College of Engg. & Tech. (SCET)

Desk of Chairman Representative

Academic Academic Activities Induction Program Industrial Visits NPTEL Courses Research&Development Activities Admission Academic Calendar GTU Academic Calendar SU Academic Calendar Academic Rules and Regulations Honors/Minors Honors-Minors - Results Exam Schedule Transdisciplinary Open Electives (TOE) MoUs/Collaborations OBE Manual Programs Offered Scholarships and Awards Fees Structure Offered by Government Assistance from Community Offered by private firms Bank loans Awards at SCET Teaching Scheme Result Syllabus

Transdisciplinary Open Electives (TOE)

Department Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Applied Science and Humanities Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Computer Engineering Electrical Engineering Electronics & Communication Engineering Information Technology Instrumentation and Control MCA Mechanical Engineering Textile Technology

Artificial Intelligence & Data Science

Electronics & Communication Engineering

Training & Placement About Training & Placement Vision and Mission Invitation Letter Placement Procedure Student Policy Why Recruit From SCET Academic & Industrial Exposure Recruiter Interaction Programme List of Recruiters Placement Report Placement Ratio Summer & winter internship Career Counselling Training T&P Team Tips

Recruiter Interaction Programme

Campus Life Hostel Hostel fees Rules and Regulations for Hostel Cafeteria Library About Library Library Rules Library Functioning Library Staff Library E-Resources SCET Clubs Technical Clubs CODING CLUB IOT Club Non-Technical Clubs SCET Dance Club (SDC) SCET Music Club (SMC) SCET Yoga Club (SYC) SCET Photography Club (SPC) KALEDIOSCOPE@SCET Environment Club CLUBS Activities Sports Sports Facilities Sports Events Intra Department Sports Events Inter SES Sports Events SU Inter College Events GTU Inter Zonal Sports Events GTU Surat Zone Sports Events Sports Achievements National Players Sports Photo Gallery Student Chapters Computer Society of India (CSI) IEEE SCET Branch ISTE ISA IETE IEI IIChE Students Achievements Other Facilities

Internationalization About the International Relations Cell International Collaborations Global Excursions B Tech + MS Programs International Activities Contact US

About the International Relations Cell

Events Art and Intellect Kshitij TechFest NSS Activities / Social Activities SAWC Activities VERVE Cultural Fest

NSS Activities / Social Activities

Media SCET in Media College News Student News FAQs Downloads

× search Web Image Sort by: Relevance Relevance Date

Electronics & Communication Engineering

Electronics & Communication Engineering

The Department of Electronics & Communication was established in the year 1995. At present the Department is offering Undergraduate Program in the field of Electronics and Communication as well as Post Graduate program in the field of Communication Systems. The departmental facilities including latest laboratory equipment's, communication kits and modules, fibre optic kits, microwave bench etc. enabled the department to be a front-runner amongst Institutes offering courses in Electronics and Communication. The curriculum is based on latest views as needed by industries and research departments. There are seven well-equipped laboratories in the department. The ultimate laboratory facility along with unlimited internet access helps the upcoming electronics engineer to come out with bright future. The department consists of highly capable teaching and non-teaching staff who are always ready to enculcate the best knowledge to the students. The department always strives for providing excellent and modernizes laboratory facilities to the students.

The department of Electronics and Communication devotes itself and its resources to develop intellectually capable for the development of the society.

The department dedicates its strength to develop skilful and innovative professionals.

To cultivate entrepreneurial and leadership quality for the benefit of the society.

PEO1: Exhibit an in-depth theoretical and practical knowledge of various engineering aspects and strongly frame their fundamentals for progressing career.

PEO2: Develop the proficiency with the techniques of Mathematics and ability to evaluate logical arguments to tackle the real world challenges.

PEO3: Develop innovative ideas pertaining to technical problems based on simulations and various software means.

PEO4: Establish oneself as Effective Professionals with attention to team- work, leadership, effective communication, critical thinking and problem solving skills within a global, societal and environmental context

PEO5: Enhance the performance in multi-disciplinary organization and achieve professional advancement with increasing responsibilities and ethical ramifications

PO1: Apply the knowledge of mathematics, science, engineering fundamentals, and an engineering specialization to the solution of complex engineering problems (Engineering knowledge).

PO2: Identify, formulate, review research literature, and analyze complex engineering problems ( Problem analysis).

PO3: Design solutions for complex engineering problems with appropriate consideration for the public health and safety.( Design/development of solutions)

PO4: Use research-based knowledge to provide valid conclusions. (Conduct investigations of complex problems)

PO5: Create, select, and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and modern engineering and IT simulator tools with an understanding of the limitations. (Modern tool usage)

PO6: Apply reasoning informed by the contextual knowledge to assess responsibilities relevant to the professional engineering practice. ( The engineer and society)

PO7: Understand the impact of the professional engineering solutions in societal and environmental contexts, and need for sustainable development. ( Environment and sustainability)

PO8: Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics and responsibilities and norms of the engineering practice.( Ethics)

PO9: Function effectively as an individual, and as a member or leader in diverse teams. ( Individual and team work)

PO10: Communicate effectively with the engineering community and with society at large and write effective reports and design documentation, make effective presentations. (Communication)

PO11: Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the engineering principles and apply these to one’s own work, as a member and leader in a team, to manage projects and in multidisciplinary environments. ( Project management and finance)

PO12: Recognize the need for, and lifelong learning in the broadest context of technological change.(Life-long learning)

The graduate from the department will be able to,

PSO1: Describe, analyse, implement and test different analog, digital and mixed signal circuits.

PSO2: write, simulate and debug assembly and higher level program for both analog and digital circuits and systems.

PSO3: Design and measure critical performance parameters of electronics and communications systems.

Artifical Intelligence & Data Science

Electronics & Communication Engineering

Dr, R K Desai Marg, Opp. Mission Hospital,Athwalines,Surat-395001, Gujarat, India.

+91-0261-2240146/47/48    |  +91 8799078785 info@scet.ac.in