TITLE: Faq - Sarvajanik College of Engineering & Technology
URL: https://scet.ac.in/faq/

About Sarvajanik College of Engg. & Tech. (SCET) Sarvajanik Education Society SES Management SCET Committees Internal Committees Women’s Development Cell Anti-Ragging Cell Grievance Redressal Committee Disability Resource Center IQAC Administration SCET Governing Body Desk of Chairman Desk of Chairman Representative Desk of Principal

Sarvajanik College of Engg. & Tech. (SCET)

Desk of Chairman Representative

Academic Academic Activities Induction Program Industrial Visits NPTEL Courses Research&Development Activities Admission Academic Calendar GTU Academic Calendar SU Academic Calendar Academic Rules and Regulations Honors/Minors Honors-Minors - Results Exam Schedule Transdisciplinary Open Electives (TOE) MoUs/Collaborations OBE Manual Programs Offered Scholarships and Awards Fees Structure Offered by Government Assistance from Community Offered by private firms Bank loans Awards at SCET Teaching Scheme Result Syllabus

Transdisciplinary Open Electives (TOE)

Department Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Applied Science and Humanities Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Computer Engineering Electrical Engineering Electronics & Communication Engineering Information Technology Instrumentation and Control MCA Mechanical Engineering Textile Technology

Artificial Intelligence & Data Science

Electronics & Communication Engineering

Training & Placement About Training & Placement Vision and Mission Invitation Letter Placement Procedure Student Policy Why Recruit From SCET Academic & Industrial Exposure Recruiter Interaction Programme List of Recruiters Placement Report Placement Ratio Summer & winter internship Career Counselling Training T&P Team Tips

Recruiter Interaction Programme

Campus Life Hostel Hostel fees Rules and Regulations for Hostel Cafeteria Library About Library Library Rules Library Functioning Library Staff Library E-Resources SCET Clubs Technical Clubs CODING CLUB IOT Club Non-Technical Clubs SCET Dance Club (SDC) SCET Music Club (SMC) SCET Yoga Club (SYC) SCET Photography Club (SPC) KALEDIOSCOPE@SCET Environment Club CLUBS Activities Sports Sports Facilities Sports Events Intra Department Sports Events Inter SES Sports Events SU Inter College Events GTU Inter Zonal Sports Events GTU Surat Zone Sports Events Sports Achievements National Players Sports Photo Gallery Student Chapters Computer Society of India (CSI) IEEE SCET Branch ISTE ISA IETE IEI IIChE Students Achievements Other Facilities

Internationalization About the International Relations Cell International Collaborations Global Excursions B Tech + MS Programs International Activities Contact US

About the International Relations Cell

Events Art and Intellect Kshitij TechFest NSS Activities / Social Activities SAWC Activities VERVE Cultural Fest

NSS Activities / Social Activities

Media SCET in Media College News Student News FAQs Downloads

× search Web Image Sort by: Relevance Relevance Date

1] Application for the Engineering course: The admission to these courses are centralized, so the candidate has to apply to the Admission Committee for Professional courses (ACPC) in their prescribed forms within prescribed time limit. These forms can be registered online from the help centers notified by the ACPC. For more information please refer Admission Committee for professional Courses (Technical) L. D. College of Engineering Campus Ahmedabad - 380 015, (ACPC) website: www.jacpcldce.ac.in, E-mail: ldceindia@gmail.com , Phone: 079-26304118/26300360, Fax No. : 079-26304118 2] Application for the Architecture course: Admission to Architecture is done through State Architecture Admissions in Gujarat (SAAG) at CEPT, Ahmedabad. Kasturbhai Lalbhai Campus, University Road, Navrangpura, Ahmedabad - 380 009. Phone No. : 079-26302470/26302452, Fax No. 079-26302075. For more information please refer website of CEPT: www.cept.ac.in and E-mail: cept@ad1.vsnl.net.in 3] Application for Master of Architecture course: Applications will be invited by way of advertisement. On the basis of applications received committee nominated by Veer Narmad South Gujarat University will finalize the admissions. 4] Application for Master of Computer Applications course: Application form details for this course and details of GCET examination shall be available on GTU website; On the basis of merit obtained the admission shall be finalized by GTU. The website for GTU is www.gtu.ac.in 5] Application for Master of Engineering Applications course: Admission to M.E. is done through ACPC, L. D. College of Engineering Campus, Opp Gujarat University, Ahmedabad. Phone No. : 079-26302470/26302452, Fax No. 079-26302075. For more information please refer website of ACPC: www.jacpcldce.ac.in

2. What is the facility for Hostel?

Hostel: There is a separate hostel for boys and girls at five minutes walking distance from campus.

3. Details regarding Training & Placement Cell

Liasion with various industries, organization and institutions.

Assists students for summer training.

Co-ordinates between organization and the institution for arrangement, planning and execution of campus interviews.

Provides all necessary facilities to the visiting team during campus interview.

Organizes study tour programme.

4. What is the process for Diploma to Degree Admission?

Diploma students can secure direct admission to the second year (3rd semester) of the above engineering courses, based on 10% of the total intake. Admissions are conducted online through a centralized procedure managed by ACPC. Aspirants must appear for the DDCET, conducted by the government.

For more information, please visit the ACPC website: www.jacpcldce.ac.in

5. Quota for reservations of seats?

As per the norms of State Government seats are reserved for the residents of Gujarat as under: A) Scheduled Caste Students-07% B) Scheduled Tribe Students-15% C) Socially & Educationally Backward-27% D) EWS-10%

6. How will the Merit List of Engineering be considered?

Merit list: The merit list will be prepared as per the notification issued by ACPC.

7. When was the college established?

SCET was one of the first self-financed engineering colleges in the state. The college was established in 1995 and is presently one of the constituent institutes of Sarvajanik University

SCET is a premier technical education institute offering UG and PG courses in Engineering, MCA, and IMCA, along with a B.Tech. program for working professionals

B.Tech. (Chemical Engineering) B.Tech. (Electronics & Communication Engineering) B.Tech. (Computer Engineering) B.Tech. (Electrical Engineering) B.Tech. (Instrumentation & Control Engineering) B.Tech. (Information Technology) B.Tech. (Civil Engineering) B.Tech. (Mechanical Engineering) B.Tech. (Artificial Intelligence & Data Science)

M.Tech. Computer Science & Engineering (Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning) M.Tech. (Environmental Engineering) M.Tech. Town & Country Planning M.Tech. Civil (Structural Engineering)

Masters in Computer Applications Integrated MCA

B.Tech. (Electrical Engineering) for Working Professionals B.Tech. (Civil Engineering) for Working Professionals B.Tech. (Computer Engineering) for Working Professionals

9. What is the eligibility for admission in Engineering?

Eligibility for admission is determined by the Government of Gujarat in accordance with AICTE guidelines. The online admission process is conducted centrally by ACPC ( www.jacpcldce.ac.in ) every year.

10. What is the eligibility for admission in Master of Computer Applications?

Eligibility criteria will be as per ACPC Guidelines ( www.jacpcldce.ac.in )

11. What is the process for Convocation?

12. What is the eligibility for admission in Master of Technology?

Eligibility criteria will be as per ACPC Guidelines ( www.jacpcldce.ac.in )

13. What facilities can be availed at Library?

14. What is the process to pay the fees?

The students of 2nd, 3rd & 4th year are required to pay the tuition fees annually or term-wise in prescribed form available with Account section within 15 days of the opening of the odd & even semester respectively.

Even the students of 1st year who have paid the half yearly fees have to pay the remaining fees at the opening of the second term. The fee structure is subject to changes as per the rules of Fee Regulatory Committee.

15. Is there any Scholarship / Fund / Gold Medal Facility?

Scholarships such as SC, ST, and SEBC, provided by the government, as well as MYSY and other state and central scholarships, are available to students through the National Scholarship Portal. Interest-free loan scholarships are also available at the institute. GATE scholarship is available for PG students. Moreover, Sarvajanik University offers several other scholarships. Gold medals are awarded to meritorious students in each course every year.

16. What is SCET's affiliation and background?

What is SCET's affiliation and background?

SCET is one of the constituent institutes of Sarvajanik University, which was established by the century-old philanthropic Sarvajanik Education Society, providing high-quality education.

Artifical Intelligence & Data Science

Electronics & Communication Engineering

Dr, R K Desai Marg, Opp. Mission Hospital,Athwalines,Surat-395001, Gujarat, India.

+91-0261-2240146/47/48    |  +91 8799078785 info@scet.ac.in