TITLE: Information Technology - Sarvajanik College of Engineering & Technology a Constituent institute
URL: https://scet.ac.in/department/information-technology/

About Sarvajanik College of Engg. & Tech. (SCET) Sarvajanik Education Society SES Management SCET Committees Internal Committees Women’s Development Cell Anti-Ragging Cell Grievance Redressal Committee Disability Resource Center IQAC Administration SCET Governing Body Desk of Chairman Desk of Chairman Representative Desk of Principal

Sarvajanik College of Engg. & Tech. (SCET)

Desk of Chairman Representative

Academic Academic Activities Induction Program Industrial Visits NPTEL Courses Research&Development Activities Admission Academic Calendar GTU Academic Calendar SU Academic Calendar Academic Rules and Regulations Honors/Minors Honors-Minors - Results Exam Schedule Transdisciplinary Open Electives (TOE) MoUs/Collaborations OBE Manual Programs Offered Scholarships and Awards Fees Structure Offered by Government Assistance from Community Offered by private firms Bank loans Awards at SCET Teaching Scheme Result Syllabus

Transdisciplinary Open Electives (TOE)

Department Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Applied Science and Humanities Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Computer Engineering Electrical Engineering Electronics & Communication Engineering Information Technology Instrumentation and Control MCA Mechanical Engineering Textile Technology

Artificial Intelligence & Data Science

Electronics & Communication Engineering

Training & Placement About Training & Placement Vision and Mission Invitation Letter Placement Procedure Student Policy Why Recruit From SCET Academic & Industrial Exposure Recruiter Interaction Programme List of Recruiters Placement Report Placement Ratio Summer & winter internship Career Counselling Training T&P Team Tips

Recruiter Interaction Programme

Campus Life Hostel Hostel fees Rules and Regulations for Hostel Cafeteria Library About Library Library Rules Library Functioning Library Staff Library E-Resources SCET Clubs Technical Clubs CODING CLUB IOT Club Non-Technical Clubs SCET Dance Club (SDC) SCET Music Club (SMC) SCET Yoga Club (SYC) SCET Photography Club (SPC) KALEDIOSCOPE@SCET Environment Club CLUBS Activities Sports Sports Facilities Sports Events Intra Department Sports Events Inter SES Sports Events SU Inter College Events GTU Inter Zonal Sports Events GTU Surat Zone Sports Events Sports Achievements National Players Sports Photo Gallery Student Chapters Computer Society of India (CSI) IEEE SCET Branch ISTE ISA IETE IEI IIChE Students Achievements Other Facilities

Internationalization About the International Relations Cell International Collaborations Global Excursions B Tech + MS Programs International Activities Contact US

About the International Relations Cell

Events Art and Intellect Kshitij TechFest NSS Activities / Social Activities SAWC Activities VERVE Cultural Fest

NSS Activities / Social Activities

Media SCET in Media College News Student News FAQs Downloads

× search Web Image Sort by: Relevance Relevance Date

The Department of Information Technology Engineering, established in 2001 provides one of the best learning opportunities to students with its contemporary course design and curriculum and by providing state-of-art learning resources.

The IT department currently offers two AICTE approved courses of engineering:

(i) BTech(Information Technology) with an intake of 120 students and

(ii) BTech(Artificial Intelligence and Data Science) with an intake of 60 students

The Department of Information Technology has dedicated, fully-qualified and highly experienced teaching faculty who are committed towards nurturing young IT professionals of the next generation. The department has spacious, well-equipped laboratories with latest computer systems and other resources like laptops, projectors, graphics processing unit and wireless devices in addition to a continuous, high-speed Internet access to facilitate the curriculum’s practical implementation and project-development work.

The I.T. Department regularly organizes seminars, guest lectures, workshops, short term trainings and programming contests for students to expand their knowledge and skill set beyond the regular curriculum. We encourage our students to work on innovative and industry-applicable projects so that they can become the most highly sought after I.T. graduates in the country.

Vibrant Learning and Research Environment

Jobs for students in reputed MNCs through Campus placement assistance like TCS, Wipro, Cognizant etc.

Scholarships for Meritorious students

Experienced and Qualified permanent faculty members holding Ph.D. and M.Tech degrees

Selection as Student ambassadors in International companies like TCS-India and SAP-Germany

IT students have been granted projects under SSIP (Student Startup and Innovation Policy) by Government of Gujarat

Consistently good academic records of students with gold medals as branch toppers at GTU

To evolve as a global center of excellence in the field of Information Technology imparting technical education and professional ethics to thrive in an era of globalization.

To impart sound technical knowledge in the field of Information Technology through a creative balance of academic, research and co-curricular activities.

To cultivate professional ethics and soft skills in the student for global competitiveness.

To collaborate with industries, government entities and other academic institutions to bring socially responsible, sustainable IT solutions to the world.

The educational objectives of the Information Technology program are designed to produce competent engineers who are ready to contribute effectively to the advancement of Information Technology causes and to accommodate the needs of the profession. The highlights of the objectives include:

Endorse the practice of Information Technology in the general disciplines of design, development and deployment of software and integration of existing technologies.

Teach the application of fundamental engineering skills and specialized computing knowledge to provide feasible solutions to problems in various areas of IT.

Provide knowledge to students beyond the prescribed curriculum.

Regular organization of technical guest-lectures, programming contests, various quiz, seminars, short-term training programme, conference, workshops and cultural programme for an all-round development of students.

Engineering Graduates will be able to:

Apply the knowledge of mathematics, science, engineering fundamentals, and an engineering specialization to the solution of complex engineering problems.

Identify, formulate, review research literature, and analyze complex engineering problems reaching substantiated conclusions using principles of mathematics, natural sciences, and engineering sciences.

Design solutions for complex engineering problems and design system components or processes that meet the specified needs with appropriate consideration for the public health and safety, and the cultural, societal, and environmental considerations.

Use research-based knowledge and research methods including design of experiments, analysis and interpretation of data, and synthesis of the information to provide valid conclusions.

Create, select, and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and modern engineering and IT tools including design, modeling and visualization to engineering problems with an understanding of the limitations.

Apply reasoning informed by the contextual knowledge to assess societal, health, safety, legal and cultural issues and the consequent responsibilities relevant to the professional engineering practice.

Understand the impact of the professional engineering solutions in societal and environmental contexts, and demonstrate the knowledge of, and need for sustainable development.

Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics and responsibilities and norms of the engineering practice.

Function effectively as an individual, and as a member or leader in diverse teams, and in multidisciplinary settings.

Communicate effectively on complex engineering activities with the engineering community and with society at large, such as, being able to comprehend and write effective reports and design documentation, make effective presentations, and give and receive clear instructions.

Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the engineering and management principles and apply these to one’s own work, as a member and leader in a team, to manage projects in multidisciplinary environments.

Recognize the need for, and have the preparation and ability to engage in independent and life-long learning in the broadest context of technological change.

Develop and deploy efficient algorithms to solve engineering problems .

Design, code, validate and test various application and system software and evaluate the performance based on performance metrics for software systems .

Perform information retrieval and processing for real-time applications.

Artifical Intelligence & Data Science

Electronics & Communication Engineering

Dr, R K Desai Marg, Opp. Mission Hospital,Athwalines,Surat-395001, Gujarat, India.

+91-0261-2240146/47/48    |  +91 8799078785 info@scet.ac.in