TITLE: Instrumentation and Control - Sarvajanik College of Engineering & Technology a Constituent institute
URL: https://scet.ac.in/department/instrumentation-and-control/

About Sarvajanik College of Engg. & Tech. (SCET) Sarvajanik Education Society SES Management SCET Committees Internal Committees Women’s Development Cell Anti-Ragging Cell Grievance Redressal Committee Disability Resource Center IQAC Administration SCET Governing Body Desk of Chairman Desk of Chairman Representative Desk of Principal

Sarvajanik College of Engg. & Tech. (SCET)

Desk of Chairman Representative

Academic Academic Activities Induction Program Industrial Visits NPTEL Courses Research&Development Activities Admission Academic Calendar GTU Academic Calendar SU Academic Calendar Academic Rules and Regulations Honors/Minors Honors-Minors - Results Exam Schedule Transdisciplinary Open Electives (TOE) MoUs/Collaborations OBE Manual Programs Offered Scholarships and Awards Fees Structure Offered by Government Assistance from Community Offered by private firms Bank loans Awards at SCET Teaching Scheme Result Syllabus

Transdisciplinary Open Electives (TOE)

Department Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Applied Science and Humanities Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Computer Engineering Electrical Engineering Electronics & Communication Engineering Information Technology Instrumentation and Control MCA Mechanical Engineering Textile Technology

Artificial Intelligence & Data Science

Electronics & Communication Engineering

Training & Placement About Training & Placement Vision and Mission Invitation Letter Placement Procedure Student Policy Why Recruit From SCET Academic & Industrial Exposure Recruiter Interaction Programme List of Recruiters Placement Report Placement Ratio Summer & winter internship Career Counselling Training T&P Team Tips

Recruiter Interaction Programme

Campus Life Hostel Hostel fees Rules and Regulations for Hostel Cafeteria Library About Library Library Rules Library Functioning Library Staff Library E-Resources SCET Clubs Technical Clubs CODING CLUB IOT Club Non-Technical Clubs SCET Dance Club (SDC) SCET Music Club (SMC) SCET Yoga Club (SYC) SCET Photography Club (SPC) KALEDIOSCOPE@SCET Environment Club CLUBS Activities Sports Sports Facilities Sports Events Intra Department Sports Events Inter SES Sports Events SU Inter College Events GTU Inter Zonal Sports Events GTU Surat Zone Sports Events Sports Achievements National Players Sports Photo Gallery Student Chapters Computer Society of India (CSI) IEEE SCET Branch ISTE ISA IETE IEI IIChE Students Achievements Other Facilities

Internationalization About the International Relations Cell International Collaborations Global Excursions B Tech + MS Programs International Activities Contact US

About the International Relations Cell

Events Art and Intellect Kshitij TechFest NSS Activities / Social Activities SAWC Activities VERVE Cultural Fest

NSS Activities / Social Activities

Media SCET in Media College News Student News FAQs Downloads

× search Web Image Sort by: Relevance Relevance Date

Instrumentation & Control (IC) Engineering Department is established in 1997 with sanctioned intake of 30 under Veer Narmad South Gujarat University. Now under Gujarat Technological University, the sanctioned intake is 60. With Excellent Laboratory and Class Rooms facility the IC department has well experienced and skilled teaching and non teaching staff. I &C department is running ISA Student chapter under which activities like expert talk, alumni talk and other technical and non-technical activities are carried out. I & C department is organizing industrial visits and also encouraging students for vocational training in various industries. With the joint effort of T & P cell and I & C department, our students are placed at reputed industries like L&T, L&T Infotech, Reliance Industries Ltd., ABB Ltd., Essar Steel, Bhabha Atomic Research Center (BARC), DRDO, Shell, YOKOGAWA to name a few. Many of our students have completed further studies in foreign countries and got very well jobs.

To endeavor for excellence in the field of Instrumentation & Control Engineering through innovative teaching, research and industry academia collaboration.

To set up the mechanism for quality education in the field of Instrumentation & control Engineering to meet the industrial requirements.

To establish a research environment for societal benefit through industrial interaction.

To inculcate entrepreneurial attitude, professional ethics and human values among learners.

Graduate will apply fundamental knowledge and skills in solving real world

Graduate will apply standard industry practices and emerging technologies to

analyze, design, develop, and implement the state-of-the art solutions. (Breadth)

Graduate will be accepted into higher studies or become employable by

exhibiting effective communication skills, teamwork , ethical attitude, and

demonstrate a pursuit of lifelong learning. (professionalism and preparation)

After completion of this four year graduate level program in Instrumentation & Control Engineering students will be capable to acquire the following qualities.

PO 1: Apply knowledge of Mathematics, Science and Engineering to Instrumentation and Control Discipline to solve complex engineering problems.

PO 2: Identify, formulate, review research literature and analyse complex engineering problems reaching substantiated conclusions with the fundamentals of mathematics, engineering and science.

PO 3: Design solutions for complex engineering problems and design system components that meet the specified requirements with considerations for the public health and safety and environmental considerations.

PO 4: Use research based knowledge and research methods including design of experiments, analysis and interpretation of data and synthesis of the information to provide valid conclusions.

PO 5: Create, select and apply appropriate techniques, resources and modern engineering and software tools including prediction and modelling complex engineering activities with an understanding of the limitations.

PO 6: Apply reasoning informed by the contextual knowledge to assess public health, safety, communication and other legal issues relevant to the professional engineering practice.

PO 7: Evaluate the impact of the professional engineering solutions in social and environmental contexts and provide sustainable development of systems.

PO 8: Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics and responsibilities and norms of the engineering practice.

PO 9: Function effectively as an individual and a member or a leader in diverse teams, and in multidisciplinary settings.

PO 10: Communicate effectively on complex engineering activities with the engineering community and with society at large, such as being able to write comprehensive and effective reports with impressive presentation and communication skills.

PO 11: Demonstrate acquired skills of engineering and management and apply these to one’s own work as a member or leader to carry out multidisciplinary projects.

Program Specific Outcomes (PSO)

A Graduate Engineer will be able to

PSO 1: design, develop, select, test, calibrate, install and integrate Instrumentation and Control systems.

PSO 2: model, simulate and analyse systems and control methodologies to cater the needs of the core industrial problems.

PSO 3: synthesize new ideas by integrating emerging technologies to provide solutions for the real life applications.

Artifical Intelligence & Data Science

Electronics & Communication Engineering

Dr, R K Desai Marg, Opp. Mission Hospital,Athwalines,Surat-395001, Gujarat, India.

+91-0261-2240146/47/48    |  +91 8799078785 info@scet.ac.in