TITLE: MCA - Sarvajanik College of Engineering & Technology a Constituent institute
URL: https://scet.ac.in/department/mca/

About Sarvajanik College of Engg. & Tech. (SCET) Sarvajanik Education Society SES Management SCET Committees Internal Committees Women’s Development Cell Anti-Ragging Cell Grievance Redressal Committee Disability Resource Center IQAC Administration SCET Governing Body Desk of Chairman Desk of Chairman Representative Desk of Principal

Sarvajanik College of Engg. & Tech. (SCET)

Desk of Chairman Representative

Academic Academic Activities Induction Program Industrial Visits NPTEL Courses Research&Development Activities Admission Academic Calendar GTU Academic Calendar SU Academic Calendar Academic Rules and Regulations Honors/Minors Honors-Minors - Results Exam Schedule Transdisciplinary Open Electives (TOE) MoUs/Collaborations OBE Manual Programs Offered Scholarships and Awards Fees Structure Offered by Government Assistance from Community Offered by private firms Bank loans Awards at SCET Teaching Scheme Result Syllabus

Transdisciplinary Open Electives (TOE)

Department Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Applied Science and Humanities Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Computer Engineering Electrical Engineering Electronics & Communication Engineering Information Technology Instrumentation and Control MCA Mechanical Engineering Textile Technology

Artificial Intelligence & Data Science

Electronics & Communication Engineering

Training & Placement About Training & Placement Vision and Mission Invitation Letter Placement Procedure Student Policy Why Recruit From SCET Academic & Industrial Exposure Recruiter Interaction Programme List of Recruiters Placement Report Placement Ratio Summer & winter internship Career Counselling Training T&P Team Tips

Recruiter Interaction Programme

Campus Life Hostel Hostel fees Rules and Regulations for Hostel Cafeteria Library About Library Library Rules Library Functioning Library Staff Library E-Resources SCET Clubs Technical Clubs CODING CLUB IOT Club Non-Technical Clubs SCET Dance Club (SDC) SCET Music Club (SMC) SCET Yoga Club (SYC) SCET Photography Club (SPC) KALEDIOSCOPE@SCET Environment Club CLUBS Activities Sports Sports Facilities Sports Events Intra Department Sports Events Inter SES Sports Events SU Inter College Events GTU Inter Zonal Sports Events GTU Surat Zone Sports Events Sports Achievements National Players Sports Photo Gallery Student Chapters Computer Society of India (CSI) IEEE SCET Branch ISTE ISA IETE IEI IIChE Students Achievements Other Facilities

Internationalization About the International Relations Cell International Collaborations Global Excursions B Tech + MS Programs International Activities Contact US

About the International Relations Cell

Events Art and Intellect Kshitij TechFest NSS Activities / Social Activities SAWC Activities VERVE Cultural Fest

NSS Activities / Social Activities

Media SCET in Media College News Student News FAQs Downloads

× search Web Image Sort by: Relevance Relevance Date

Department of Master of Computer Application has commenced from the year 2009 at the Sarvajanik College of Engineering & Technology. The MCA department currently offers two AICTE approved PG programs: (i) MCA with an intake of 120 students and (ii) Integrated MCA with an intake of 60 students

The Department provides high valued technical education to its students with the help of its state-of-the-art computing facilities. The Department has relatively young, yet, experienced and dynamic team comprising of Assistant Professors and lecturers, headed by scholarly Head of Department.

The Department has proved its competence as an educational institute by standing 1st in year 2011 and 2nd in year 2012 in final year exams amongst all colleges under GTU.

The Department is equipped with latest hi-tech hardware and software facilities and other peripherals. The Department has three computer laboratories and a server room which is also under the guidance of experienced Lab Assistant.

The Department provides full support for Training and Placement of its final year students.

Along with the latest curriculum, the Department also organizes Vivacity – A Tech Fest for the all round development of its students. The Department has bi annually technical Magazine INFORMATICA, covering articles on latest information technology and computer science world. The Department also organizes workshops on latest emerging trends of IT industry conducted by expertise professionals from the industry, which provides an edge over for the students.

This course is affiliated to the Sarvajanik University from Academic year 2021.

To impart quality education in the field of Computer Science and Applications for crafting competent IT professionals, entrepreneurs, academicians, capable to withstand rapidly changing global challenges with human values at the core.

To achieve excellence in teaching by providing state-of-the-art infrastructure and computing facilities.

To improve learning capabilities by the use of Information and Communication Technologies.

To prepare skillful, trained IT professionals and entrepreneurs by imparting education through workshops, seminars, expert lectures and competitions.

To bridge the gap between industry and academia by providing platform for interaction with the industries,professionals and alumni.

To sensitize cultural and moral values in students for betterment of society.

Programme Educational Objectives (PEOs)

The Programme Educational Objectives of MCA Department are:

To create professionals proficient in Problem Solving and Analytical Skills, System Applications and Developments, Analysis and Design, Project Management and Testing.

To instill a curve in students for continuous learning by upgrading them with latest technologies.

To nurture the self-confidence and boost morale for taking Entrepreneurship.

To provide a competitive bench for enhancing personality, team spirit, leadership qualities and enthusiasm by organizing technical, cultural and social events.

To kindle the urge in students to contribute towards betterment of the society by becoming well-educated, civilized, morally-upright and responsible citizens.

The Programme Outcomes of MCA Department are:

Graduates with the ability to understand and confer fundamentals of computer science

Graduates fused with knowledge of contemporary and modern technologies.

Graduates possessing skills to analyze the problem related to real world scenarios from field of computer science.

Graduates with a command to evaluate real world computer science related problems with reasonable and practical solutions.

Graduates having an additional edge towards computing problems related to research.

Graduates with an ability to adapt the use of newer and modern technologies and have valor to pursue them after understanding the limitations of the same.

Graduates having decisiveness and capability of working in team.

Graduates ready to challenge their limits and have readiness in learning newer skills.

Graduates possessing managerial and team leader skills required in software industries.

Graduates possessing fluent and effective communication skills.

Graduates crafted as upright citizens servicing the society and contribute towards sustainable development.

Graduates efficient to work in team and efficiently with the roles defined by his peers.

Graduates with the expertise to successfully start and manage their own business.

Artifical Intelligence & Data Science

Electronics & Communication Engineering

Dr, R K Desai Marg, Opp. Mission Hospital,Athwalines,Surat-395001, Gujarat, India.

+91-0261-2240146/47/48    |  +91 8799078785 info@scet.ac.in