TITLE: Mechanical Engineering - Sarvajanik College of Engineering & Technology a Constituent institute
URL: https://scet.ac.in/department/mechanical-engineering/

About Sarvajanik College of Engg. & Tech. (SCET) Sarvajanik Education Society SES Management SCET Committees Internal Committees Women’s Development Cell Anti-Ragging Cell Grievance Redressal Committee Disability Resource Center IQAC Administration SCET Governing Body Desk of Chairman Desk of Chairman Representative Desk of Principal

Sarvajanik College of Engg. & Tech. (SCET)

Desk of Chairman Representative

Academic Academic Activities Induction Program Industrial Visits NPTEL Courses Research&Development Activities Admission Academic Calendar GTU Academic Calendar SU Academic Calendar Academic Rules and Regulations Honors/Minors Honors-Minors - Results Exam Schedule Transdisciplinary Open Electives (TOE) MoUs/Collaborations OBE Manual Programs Offered Scholarships and Awards Fees Structure Offered by Government Assistance from Community Offered by private firms Bank loans Awards at SCET Teaching Scheme Result Syllabus

Transdisciplinary Open Electives (TOE)

Department Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Applied Science and Humanities Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Computer Engineering Electrical Engineering Electronics & Communication Engineering Information Technology Instrumentation and Control MCA Mechanical Engineering Textile Technology

Artificial Intelligence & Data Science

Electronics & Communication Engineering

Training & Placement About Training & Placement Vision and Mission Invitation Letter Placement Procedure Student Policy Why Recruit From SCET Academic & Industrial Exposure Recruiter Interaction Programme List of Recruiters Placement Report Placement Ratio Summer & winter internship Career Counselling Training T&P Team Tips

Recruiter Interaction Programme

Campus Life Hostel Hostel fees Rules and Regulations for Hostel Cafeteria Library About Library Library Rules Library Functioning Library Staff Library E-Resources SCET Clubs Technical Clubs CODING CLUB IOT Club Non-Technical Clubs SCET Dance Club (SDC) SCET Music Club (SMC) SCET Yoga Club (SYC) SCET Photography Club (SPC) KALEDIOSCOPE@SCET Environment Club CLUBS Activities Sports Sports Facilities Sports Events Intra Department Sports Events Inter SES Sports Events SU Inter College Events GTU Inter Zonal Sports Events GTU Surat Zone Sports Events Sports Achievements National Players Sports Photo Gallery Student Chapters Computer Society of India (CSI) IEEE SCET Branch ISTE ISA IETE IEI IIChE Students Achievements Other Facilities

Internationalization About the International Relations Cell International Collaborations Global Excursions B Tech + MS Programs International Activities Contact US

About the International Relations Cell

Events Art and Intellect Kshitij TechFest NSS Activities / Social Activities SAWC Activities VERVE Cultural Fest

NSS Activities / Social Activities

Media SCET in Media College News Student News FAQs Downloads

× search Web Image Sort by: Relevance Relevance Date

We offer an undergraduate program in Mechanical Engineering that was approved by AICTE (All India Council for Technical Education) and affiliated with GTU (Gujarat Technological University) earlier. The program started in the academic year 2018-19 and is now affiliated with Sarvajanik University from the academic year 2021. Our courses are designed to cultivate creativity, innovation, and entrepreneurial skills, emphasizing their practical application to engineering and technological problems.

Our department boasts a dynamic faculty and experienced support staff, providing a wide range of technical expertise and a breadth of academic focus.

We have well-established laboratories including the Basic Workshop, Manufacturing Process, Fluid Mechanics and Hydraulic Machinery Laboratory, Computer Aided Design (CAD), Dynamics of Machinery, Mechanical Measurement and Metrology, Basic Mechanical Engineering, Material Science and Metallurgy, Automobile Engineering. The department is also equipped with good computational facilities. To keep up with new technologies, our department offers a variety of discipline Electives covering a wide range of subjects.

In the global context, engineering students should be familiar with courses from various branches and advanced subjects within their chosen field. To supplement this, our university has introduced an academic initiative by offering Honors and Minors to undergraduate students enrolled in the B. Tech. Program. In the Department of Mechanical Engineering, we offer Three Honors in specific domains of:

Computer Aided Design/Computer Aided Manufacturing (CAD/CAM),

Advances in Automobile Engineering.

Additionally, the Institute offers 24 Minors such as:

Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning

Electrical Vehicles, and many more.

More information available at: https://scet.ac.in/pages/honors-minors/

We are committed to the growth and betterment of our students, imparting quality education for their co-curricular development and providing motivation and guidance for their extra-curricular activities. This fosters their personality, perception, vision, and work culture, making them competent employees and employers. Throughout their academic journey, we provide experiential learning opportunities, encouraging students to think creatively and collaborate both inside and outside the classroom, putting theoretical ideas to the test in real situations.

We welcome you with humbleness to explore our website to learn more about us and what we have to offer.

To become a leading school renowned for technical education, transformative science, and advances in educating the next generation of Mechanical Engineers who will contribute to the development of a prosperous and advanced society.

To develop technically qualified, innovative and visionary Mechanical Engineering practitioners for the advancement of science and technology through education, research, global consulting, and industry-academia collaboration.

Graduate engineer will be able to

Explain, experiment, analyze and validate the principles and applications of various fluid, thermal, production and energy based systems with quality and safety measures.

Design and analyze different mechanical systems with the aid of current computing and analysis software.

Apply their technical, managerial and other soft skills in research-innovation work, startups and higher studies to become a responsible technocrat and excel in their professional life.

Engineering Graduates will be able to:

PO 1 (Engineering knowledge) Apply the knowledge of mathematics, science, engineering fundamentals, and an engineering specialization to the solution of complex engineering problems.

PO 2 (Problem analysis) Identify, formulate, review research literature, and analyze complex engineering problems reaching substantiated conclusions using first principles of mathematics, natural sciences, and engineering sciences.

PO 3 (Design / development of solutions) Design solutions for complex engineering problems and design system components or processes that meet the specified needs with appropriate consideration for the public health and safety, and the cultural, societal, and environmental considerations.

PO 4 (Conduct investigations of complex problems) Use research-based knowledge and research methods including design of experiments, analysis and interpretation of data, and synthesis of the information to provide valid conclusions.

PO 5 (Modern tool usage) Create, select, and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and modern engineering and IT tools including prediction and modeling to complex engineering activities with an understanding of the limitations.

PO 6 (The engineer and society) Apply reasoning informed by the contextual knowledge to assess societal, health, safety, legal and cultural issues and the consequent responsibilities relevant to the professional engineering practice.

PO 7 (Environment and sustainability) Understand the impact of the professional engineering solutions in societal and environmental contexts, and demonstrate the knowledge of, and need for sustainable development.

PO 8 (Ethics) Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics and responsibilities and norms of the engineering practice.

PO 9 (Individual and team work) Function effectively as an individual, and as a member or leader in diverse teams, and in multidisciplinary settings.

PO 10 (Communication) Communicate effectively on complex engineering activities with the engineering community and with society at large, such as, being able to comprehend and write effective reports and design documentation, make effective presentations, and give and receive clear instructions.

PO 11 (Project management and finance) Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the engineering and management principles and apply these to one’s own work, as a member and leader in a team, to manage projects and in multi-disciplinary environments.

PO 12 (Life- long learning) Recognize the need for, and have the preparation and ability to engage in independent and life-long learning in the broadest context of technological change.

Artifical Intelligence & Data Science

Electronics & Communication Engineering

Dr, R K Desai Marg, Opp. Mission Hospital,Athwalines,Surat-395001, Gujarat, India.

+91-0261-2240146/47/48    |  +91 8799078785 info@scet.ac.in