TITLE: Sarvajanik College of Engineering & Technology a Constituent institute
URL: https://scet.ac.in/#

About Sarvajanik College of Engg. & Tech. (SCET) Sarvajanik Education Society SES Management SCET Committees Internal Committees Women’s Development Cell Anti-Ragging Cell Grievance Redressal Committee Disability Resource Center IQAC Administration SCET Governing Body Desk of Chairman Desk of Chairman Representative Desk of Principal

Sarvajanik College of Engg. & Tech. (SCET)

Desk of Chairman Representative

Academic Academic Activities Induction Program Industrial Visits NPTEL Courses Research&Development Activities Admission Academic Calendar GTU Academic Calendar SU Academic Calendar Academic Rules and Regulations Honors/Minors Honors-Minors - Results Exam Schedule Transdisciplinary Open Electives (TOE) MoUs/Collaborations OBE Manual Programs Offered Scholarships and Awards Fees Structure Offered by Government Assistance from Community Offered by private firms Bank loans Awards at SCET Teaching Scheme Result Syllabus

Transdisciplinary Open Electives (TOE)

Department Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Applied Science and Humanities Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Computer Engineering Electrical Engineering Electronics & Communication Engineering Information Technology Instrumentation and Control MCA Mechanical Engineering Textile Technology

Artificial Intelligence & Data Science

Electronics & Communication Engineering

Training & Placement About Training & Placement Vision and Mission Invitation Letter Placement Procedure Student Policy Why Recruit From SCET Academic & Industrial Exposure Recruiter Interaction Programme List of Recruiters Placement Report Placement Ratio Summer & winter internship Career Counselling Training T&P Team Tips

Recruiter Interaction Programme

Campus Life Hostel Hostel fees Rules and Regulations for Hostel Cafeteria Library About Library Library Rules Library Functioning Library Staff Library E-Resources SCET Clubs Technical Clubs CODING CLUB IOT Club Non-Technical Clubs SCET Dance Club (SDC) SCET Music Club (SMC) SCET Yoga Club (SYC) SCET Photography Club (SPC) KALEDIOSCOPE@SCET Environment Club CLUBS Activities Sports Sports Facilities Sports Events Intra Department Sports Events Inter SES Sports Events SU Inter College Events GTU Inter Zonal Sports Events GTU Surat Zone Sports Events Sports Achievements National Players Sports Photo Gallery Student Chapters Computer Society of India (CSI) IEEE SCET Branch ISTE ISA IETE IEI IIChE Students Achievements Other Facilities

Internationalization About the International Relations Cell International Collaborations Global Excursions B Tech + MS Programs International Activities Contact US

About the International Relations Cell

Events Art and Intellect Kshitij TechFest NSS Activities / Social Activities SAWC Activities VERVE Cultural Fest

NSS Activities / Social Activities

Media SCET in Media College News Student News FAQs Downloads

× search Web Image Sort by: Relevance Relevance Date

Sarvajanik College of Engineering & Technology

18 Oct, 2025 4th Convocation, SU Convocation Form Link for the 4th...

Convocation Form Link for the 4th...

07 Oct, 2025 Revised TimeTable Exam TimeTable for Winter-2025

30 Sep, 2025 Exam Timetables for Winter 25 Exam TimeTable

15 Sep, 2025 Online Government Post-Metrics Scholarship application submission notice for the year 2025-2026 Government Post-Metrics Scholarship

Government Post-Metrics Scholarship

25 Aug, 2025 BTECH_Sem 1_FinalResultNotification_After Bklg_Re-Assessment - Summer25 Result Declared

To evolve into centre of excellence by providing value based technical education, transformative research and innovations for creating a sustainable and advanced society.

To develop, train and nurture intellectually capable, innovative and entrepreneurial professionals to contribute to the growth of science and technology through education, research, global consultancy and industry-academia collaboration.

18 Oct, 2025 NASA Space Apps Challenge 2025 – Surat Edition NASA Space Apps Challenge 2025 –...

NASA Space Apps Challenge 2025 –...

16 Oct, 2025 ROBOTICS DESIGN CHALLENGE 2025 Get ready to join the team-based...

Get ready to join the team-based...

18 Oct, 2025 4th Convocation, SU Convocation Form Link for the 4th...

Convocation Form Link for the 4th...

07 Oct, 2025 Revised TimeTable Exam TimeTable for Winter-2025

30 Sep, 2025 Exam Timetables for Winter 25 Exam TimeTable

These proffesors encourage students to constantly assess how the activity is helping them gain understanding. This gives SU students ever-broadening tools to keep learning.

This community action will extend the student’s learning, which may have wide social impact. University offers them opportunity to act and reflect in order to make difference.

Inculcating values with the right approach is the biggest aim of SU facilitators. The reason to foster values in students is to recognize their common humanity and shared responsibility.

Higher education holds a unique significance in individual and national development. Graduates are expected to take up responsible positions in society. Education prepares young minds to become agents of change and for a decent, respectful livelihood. Universities serve as hubs for social development, fostering and nurturing societal values through education and imparting the right values.... Read More

Education is not the learning of facts, but the training of the mind to think and the heart to serve. At Sarvajanik University, we nurture intellect with integrity and innovation with purpose.... Read More

Welcome to Sarvajanik College of Engineering and Technology (SCET), established in 1995 as the lead institute of Sarvajanik Education Society (SES), one of the largest philanthropic societies in education in this region since 1912. SCET is now under Sarvajanik University sponsored by SES in 2021. Our experienced faculty is here to provide knowledge and skills to ambitious students for leadership in their field, with opportunities for on-field training and global exposure. We offer facilities for curricular, co-curricular, and extracurricular activities to help students achieve their life goals.... Read More

Chairman's Representative, SCET

Since the inception in 1995, SCET has marked its presence in the field of technical education, research and consultancy. Our students have excelled into various sectors. We welcome the students with a zest to develop their career in engineering and technology to join us and explore the numerous opportunities waiting for them in the core and emerging areas in the engineering and technological domains. It is assured that you will be provided with the best of the facilities for education as well as research.... Read More

The entire faculty and ever inspiring mentors leaves no stone unturned to shpae one's future. Huge respect, love and devotion for entire faculty members and department.

SCET has offered me limitless opportunities to build my career and grow as a person. Their unique learning environment has always inspired me to achive more than just educational qualification.

The three tremendous years gave me a lot great exposure and grasping opportunities to discover my knowledge and talent.

I was fortunate to attend this college which has really boosted my vital skills and helped me to grow as a person. I am thankful to all facilities who have enhanced my academic learning experience.

The entire faculty and ever inspiring mentors leaves no stone unturned to shpae one's future. Huge respect, love and devotion for entire faculty members and department.

SCET has offered me limitless opportunities to build my career and grow as a person. Their unique learning environment has always inspired me to achive more than just educational qualification.

The three tremendous years gave me a lot great exposure and grasping opportunities to discover my knowledge and talent.

I was fortunate to attend this college which has really boosted my vital skills and helped me to grow as a person. I am thankful to all facilities who have enhanced my academic learning experience.

Artifical Intelligence & Data Science

Electronics & Communication Engineering

Dr, R K Desai Marg, Opp. Mission Hospital,Athwalines,Surat-395001, Gujarat, India.

+91-0261-2240146/47/48    |  +91 8799078785 info@scet.ac.in