TITLE: Textile Technology - Sarvajanik College of Engineering & Technology a Constituent institute
URL: https://scet.ac.in/department/textile-technology/

About Sarvajanik College of Engg. & Tech. (SCET) Sarvajanik Education Society SES Management SCET Committees Internal Committees Women’s Development Cell Anti-Ragging Cell Grievance Redressal Committee Disability Resource Center IQAC Administration SCET Governing Body Desk of Chairman Desk of Chairman Representative Desk of Principal

Sarvajanik College of Engg. & Tech. (SCET)

Desk of Chairman Representative

Academic Academic Activities Induction Program Industrial Visits NPTEL Courses Research&Development Activities Admission Academic Calendar GTU Academic Calendar SU Academic Calendar Academic Rules and Regulations Honors/Minors Honors-Minors - Results Exam Schedule Transdisciplinary Open Electives (TOE) MoUs/Collaborations OBE Manual Programs Offered Scholarships and Awards Fees Structure Offered by Government Assistance from Community Offered by private firms Bank loans Awards at SCET Teaching Scheme Result Syllabus

Transdisciplinary Open Electives (TOE)

Department Artificial Intelligence & Data Science Applied Science and Humanities Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Computer Engineering Electrical Engineering Electronics & Communication Engineering Information Technology Instrumentation and Control MCA Mechanical Engineering Textile Technology

Artificial Intelligence & Data Science

Electronics & Communication Engineering

Training & Placement About Training & Placement Vision and Mission Invitation Letter Placement Procedure Student Policy Why Recruit From SCET Academic & Industrial Exposure Recruiter Interaction Programme List of Recruiters Placement Report Placement Ratio Summer & winter internship Career Counselling Training T&P Team Tips

Recruiter Interaction Programme

Campus Life Hostel Hostel fees Rules and Regulations for Hostel Cafeteria Library About Library Library Rules Library Functioning Library Staff Library E-Resources SCET Clubs Technical Clubs CODING CLUB IOT Club Non-Technical Clubs SCET Dance Club (SDC) SCET Music Club (SMC) SCET Yoga Club (SYC) SCET Photography Club (SPC) KALEDIOSCOPE@SCET Environment Club CLUBS Activities Sports Sports Facilities Sports Events Intra Department Sports Events Inter SES Sports Events SU Inter College Events GTU Inter Zonal Sports Events GTU Surat Zone Sports Events Sports Achievements National Players Sports Photo Gallery Student Chapters Computer Society of India (CSI) IEEE SCET Branch ISTE ISA IETE IEI IIChE Students Achievements Other Facilities

Internationalization About the International Relations Cell International Collaborations Global Excursions B Tech + MS Programs International Activities Contact US

About the International Relations Cell

Events Art and Intellect Kshitij TechFest NSS Activities / Social Activities SAWC Activities VERVE Cultural Fest

NSS Activities / Social Activities

Media SCET in Media College News Student News FAQs Downloads

× search Web Image Sort by: Relevance Relevance Date

The Department of Textile Technology, was established with the pioneering contribution from The Surat Art Silk Cloth Manufacturers Association (SASCMA) in 1995. It should be noted that inspite of Textiles being so important to Indian economy, Textile department is available at very few institutes not only in the state but across the country and SCET is proud to have one with it.

Strategically located in Textile city Surat, which is buzzing with textile activity, the department is fast earning reputation as an important centre for quality Textile education as well as an important centre for textile activities in the city.

The program is designed to provide the student with a thorough background in fundamental concepts of scientific, technological, and management principles, and ability to define and solve challenging problems related to textiles. An essential component of the department’s mission is the development of new knowledge through innovative ideas and the subsequent transfer of this knowledge to both the textile industry and society.

The department has a relatively young, yet experienced and dynamic team with one professor with Ph.D., four associate professors and other assistant professors mostly having master’s degree.

To achieve excellency in textile education & research and produce competent technocrats meeting industry needs paving way to progressive civilization.

To create atmosphere of learning in which students acquire comprehensive knowledge with a multi disciplinary approach.

To promote research, creativity, innovation and professional activities.

To forge relationship with reputed institutes, industries and government bodies for  the benefit of society at large.

Two to three years after matriculation, the graduate of the Department of Textile Technology from SCET will be able to:

PEO1: Synthesis data & technical concepts for application and product development.

PEO2: Work as part of teams of multidisciplinary projects.

PEO3: Use a sound foundation about raw materials, yarn & fabric engineering fundamentals necessary for design and development.

PEO4: Apply knowledge gained for professional issues in textile engineering including ethics, issues related to the global economy and emerging technologies and fostering of important job related skills such as improved oral and written communications and experience in working in teams at a number of levels.

PEO5: Prepare for successful careers in Industry that meet the needs of Indian & Multinational companies.

Graduates will demonstrate basic knowledge in mathematics, science & engineering.

Graduates will demonstrate the ability to identity various fibrous raw materials and thus have the ability for design and product development.

Graduates will demonstrate the ability to function on engineering & science laboratory as well as on multidisciplinary tasks.

Graduates are expected to identify, formulate & solve engineering problems.

Graduates are expected to possess ability to use the techniques, skills and modern engineering tools necessary for engineering practice.

Graduates are expected to have the broad education necessary to understand the impact of engineering in a global, economic and social context and should be able to communicate effectively.

Graduates will be broadly expected to understand the impact of engineering on society and demonstrate awareness on contemporary issues.

Graduates are expected to learn all basic aspects of textile manufacturing process.

Graduates are expected to function effectively individually and on teams, including diverse and multidisciplinary, to accomplish a common goal.

Graduates are expected to communicate effectively with a range of audiences.

Graduates are expected to recognise the need for and an ability to engage in continuing professional development.

Graduates are expected to understand engineering and management principles and apply these to one’s own work, as a member and leader in a team, to manage projects.

Programme Specific Outcomes ( PSOs ):

Engineering Graduates will be able to –

1. Design and develop the processes followed for yarn formation, yarn preparation for weaving, fabric formation and allied textiles as per the requirements of textile industries.

2. Monitor various textile processes leading towards the production of yarn and/or fabric to meet with the required quality standards.

3. Learn and adopt new technological changes taken place in international market to create a new career path as an entrepreneur.

Artifical Intelligence & Data Science

Electronics & Communication Engineering

Dr, R K Desai Marg, Opp. Mission Hospital,Athwalines,Surat-395001, Gujarat, India.

+91-0261-2240146/47/48    |  +91 8799078785 info@scet.ac.in